Hi, everyone, in this that year, we are going to pick up where we left off in the previous lecture
of higher order functions.
All right.
So we have successfully understood what higher order functions are.
There are two kinds of higher order functions or two scenarios.
First, when functions accept other functions as arguments, they're called higher order functions or
when we have successfully understood that that was an easy that was the easy part.
And when the fun when any function is passed as argument to another function call, then that function
that passed function, which is an argument, it's called a callback function.
Now, there are a lot of ideas in the previous lecture and in this lecture and the second kind of higher
order functions again, I mean, starting from my first course, which was the ultimate team of five
and six is three or five elements.
And this is three properties bootcamp.
Of course, up until here, it's been like a few months and my pronunciation has is still not there,
I cannot still pronounce order correctly and like like like like fast I have to say order, which is
not correct.
Or say or Dürer like to like like break it up in sell it in syllabus and to Celebi.
What is the, what is the plural form of syllabus to be able to like convey the point.
So it's been a long journey since that and I'm still pronouncing it all like that.
So we have in the second scenario we have functions that accepting other functions as a return values,
and in this process we create factory functions.
All right.
And this works because of the lexical scope.
So what is the lexical scope?
The lexical scope says when a function is passed inside another function as the returned values.
Keep in mind, this is a return value and this is the condition.
It should be a return value.
Then that returned function or the child function has access to its parents properties, to its parent
variables, not properties variables.
So this function is a child of the some function and this anonymous child function has access to its
parents variables.
And the condition is it has to be a returned function and it means that it should be a return function,
return function, super simple.
And this works because of the lexical scope.
The length again, the lexical scope says that we can access a child fund function has can access the
variables of its parents function.
Right.
And now when when we create this function, we want to store the result inside this number one variable
and we just called it, and when we call that function, what we are going to get, where is where is
my log?
And right now, I'm going to tell you what this button is read more like reload.
Oh, we should call it constant unlogged here as well.
So whenever we call it, it's again, the parentheses is missing, it is going to return the child function
because there's some function, which is the parent function has done its job.
It has returned this function.
But what if we want to calculate this child function?
What then?
What do we do?
What would we do then?
We have to access this parameter by passing an argument to that parameter.
And how can we do that?
Whenever we open parentheses, we're going to get an intelligence pop up and it is going to say No one.
Now you guys can see it says Y, and this is why it means that in here, inside this parentheses, we
have access to this parameter, which means that whatever we pass in here is going to be an argument
to this anonymous child functions parameter.
So if I pass in six, we are going to get 11.
Let's go ahead and let's do some more examples.
I'm just going to do one more and I'm going to pass in one hundred and fifteen and I'm just going to
store it inside.
I don't know.
Let's start inside.
Number two.
We could call that back in and we are going to call number two and we are going to pass and I don't
know, like five hundred and fifty one, save it and we get six hundred and sixty six.
All right.
Which is actually what this chrome represents.
Six, six, six.
All right.
So this is how functions can accept other functions as return values.
Right.
And in the process, we create a factory function and we take advantage of a scope called lexical scope.
So I'm not going to explain it any further because I'm sure now it is clear at the end of this video,
I want to talk about the callback function.
I have hinted at that.
Now, I just want to give you an example, a real world example of how callback functions are formed
and how they how they can work, how they work and they callback functions.
They are passed in as anonymous functions.
And those anonymous functions, they are called callback functions.
Right.
So let's go ahead with the first example.
We are going to come to our read more button in a minute.
So it may not be in a minute, but Maypo Sarong three.
We are looking for pine, right, so this is going to be example one and we are going to use a built
in function.
So when inside of this sit time out, when we provide a function, this function is going to be a callback
function because it has been passed in as a parameter or as an argument to the set time out.
So if I go back and if I just go ahead and say sit time out.
And when I hit enter, we are going to we should get the where is the set time out?
This is going to be yeah, I'm looking for this one.
So in here, we're going to pass the time out in milliseconds.
I'm just going to say 2000 meaning two seconds.
And this bad boy right here, this is called an arrow function.
We are going to take a look at this when we get to our advanced chatter's.
What is this?
This is the basic syntax.
This is a very, very cool thing, but not now.
We are not going to talk about it now.
So we are going to create a function and this anonymous function which which for which this is the block.
This this is the block is a callback function.
And I want this anonymous function to implement a very, very difficult task of two, two plus two.
And when we save it right after two seconds, we are going to see this so said Time Out is going to
show us something after a certain amount of time.
So if I put it to 500 milliseconds, which is half a second, we should see right after half a second.
So this function is and a callback function.
This was the first example.
Let's go ahead with a more real world kind of example.
We are going to use sit time out when we get to our darkman toggle button, we are going to use that
time out there.
So don't worry about it.
So in here, this example is related to Dom.
We are going to cover Dom in our next chapter, so don't worry about it again before diving into the
example.
Let's go ahead and let's check out the markup now in here.
I want to mention two things.
One, this course assumes that you have intermediate knowledge of e-mail and says this course assumes
that it means that in no case, in no project will I be writing the victim on Cyesis.
I will be providing you with the estimate markup and with the CSF styling.
I will be explaining it, but I will not be writing it because this is the JavaScript course.
This is not an e-mail use discourse.
And if I go ahead and type everything out, this course is going to go to like 200 hour.
And that is well beyond the scope of my self.
Right.
So that is not going to be contained within the Muslim scope.
All right.
So that's why I will be providing you with the code.
But but I will be explaining it to.
So in here inside the body, we have a button that says read more and we have a paragraph.
Oh, gosh, where is the paragraph?
The paragraph has and has a class.
The paragraph has a property of displacement and we have another class of active which has a display
of block which we are dynamically going to apply to this paragraph.
Through JavaScript, and when we click this read more button, this is sort of like a very, very,
very small application.
When you click on this read more button, you're going to see some sort of text and you're going to
see this one here.
Here I am.
You're going to see.
It could be anything.
So let's go ahead and let's implement this functionality through JavaScript.
So first off, as we have talked about variables before, I think I think I've mentioned this, but
it doesn't matter.
I'm going to mention, again, the same the same with access.
When you want to style a Java and HTML element, you should first select it, then you can style it.
So whenever you want to apply a DOM functionality to any e-mail element, you should first select that
e-mail element.
So which is the element?
Do we want to select?
Because the functionality is applied on the.
But it's not applied on the, on the, on the paragraph because the paragraph is, is not visible,
it's not even visible.
So whenever we click the button we want to see the paragraph.
So it means that the functionality has been applied on the but.
All right, so what I'm going to do is I'm going to grab this, but right, so what I'm going to do
is I'm going to grab this button and we are going to go ahead and we are going to tap into the world
of document.
This document is actually our document object model, which in short terms is the HTML document.
So now we have top10 inside this HTML document and through a query selector method.
Think of this as a JavaScript selector as as with C assess where we have like elements selectors.
There are five groups of selectors.
I want to mention this, if you want to know all about selectors, grab my e-mail five elements and
this through properties boot camp.
If you want to know about flexibile grit and sass and all those cool animations, grab my flexible Sanscrit
and animations developed.
Of course, I do have two courses to comprehensive courses on e-mail access.
If you want to know all about them, go ahead and grab them and you will know everything about them.
So query selected works and in the way that it grabs any element from HTML through a C assist select
tour.
So inside these quotations we tap inside the CSX World Cyesis Selecter world.
Let's go ahead and let's select that element by its element selector or by name selectors.
Now we have successfully selected that.
Let's go ahead and let's select the paragraph as well.
And I'm going to give it a name of Para.
And this button has now been stored inside this Vitton variable and the Para is going to be stored within
the para.
The paragraph is going to be stored within the para variable.
So I'm just going to copy that, put it right here and we are going to select it using the para para
using the PAETEC.
It's not paragraph, it's Peter.
Now we have selected it.
We want when the bottom is correct, we we want to listen for an event.
We are going to cover all about event listeners in our next lecture.
The point of this lecture is.
To understand what core functions are, so this function that I've just highlighted here is a callback
function when the button is clicked.
What do I want to do?
I want to grab the power and I want to tap into the world of style in the world of class list.
Of course, I want to add a class to it and the class is active.
And Jeff, let's save it, so when I click on this, we are going to say here I am going when I it is
going to go click on it.
Here I am.
So what is this?
We are going to cover that in our next lecture.
But the point is, this function that I've just highlighted and I'm going to zoom in.
This highlighted function is a callback function, and that is the point of this entire lecture.
That's it for this lecture.
See you guys in the next one.